#summary Fhscan HTTP Library allows to create a proxy instance.
#labels Phase-Implementation,Featured

= Introduction =

Are you looking for a tiny and small HTTP Proxy for windows and linux? This is probably what you are looking for.


= Details =
Fhscan HTTP Api is really easy to use. You just need two lines of code to create a new HTTP Proxy instance.

{{{
 HTTPAPI *api = new (HTTPAPI);	
 api->InitHTTPProxy("127.0.0.1","8080");
}}}

By using *Callbacks*m some of your application funtions will be notified each time an event is created. Some basic events are created for example when an http request is sent or when http responses arrive. The callback function will receive an struct that contains all the exchanged information betwen your host and the remote HTTP server.

If the previous HTTP proxy example its too simple and you need something more advanced, for example logging all the HTTP Traffic, the following Callback example is all what you need.

*proxy.cpp ( HTTP Proxy Source code ):*

{{{
#include "HTTP.h"

int CBLog(int cbType,HTTPAPI *api, HTTPHANDLE HTTPHandle, PHTTP_DATA  request, PHTTP_DATA response);

int main(int argc, char *argv) 
{
 HTTPAPI *api = new (HTTPAPI);	
 api->RegisterHTTPCallBack( CBTYPE_CLIENT_RESPONSE,(HTTP_IO_REQUEST_CALLBACK)CBLog,"HTTP Proxy Logger");
 api->InitHTTPProxy("127.0.0.1","8080");
 printf("[+] Proxy running. Press any key to exit\n\n");

 getchar();
 api->StopHTTPProxy();
}

int CBLog(int cbType,HTTPAPI *api, HTTPHANDLE HTTPHandle, PHTTP_DATA  request, PHTTP_DATA response)
{
 if ( (request) && (response))
 {
   char *url   = request->GetRequestedURL(); /* Extract the request url */
   char status = response->GetStatus();    /* Get the returned HTTP response code */
   char *method= request->GetHTTPMethod(); /* Extract the HTTP verb (HEAD, GET, POST, ..) */
   if (method)
   {
     printf("%-6s %-40s %.4s %3.3i %5.i %s\n",method,api->GetHTTPConfig(HTTPHandle,OPT_HTTP_HOST),api->GetHTTPConfig(HTTPHandle,OPT_HTTP_PORT),status,response->DataSize, url);
     free(method);
   }
   free(data);
 }
 return(CBRET_STATUS_NEXT_CB_CONTINUE);
}

}}}

Of course you can also modify the data (request and response) or block the request or response by using a return value other than CBRET_STATUS_NEXT_CB_CONTINUE.